Yesterday you all enjoyed the music and I
was very happy, at your enjoyment.
Music plays a very dynamic role in human life,
one has to understand that.
One of the mysteries I was describing to you,
last time, also, created by naad, they call
it ‘naad’, you can say the logos or the
first sound, the Om, the Brahma.
The sound, first time, the sound that was
created, when the Primordial Mother, or the
Primordial Power, of Divine Love, the Power
of God, separated from God Himself.
God was the Witness; Witness of the Play of
the Divine Power.
There is no difference between the two.
God Almighty, and His Power are just like
the sun and his rays.
For us, for human beings, this is impossible
to conceive the mystery.
Moreover, in our ego, we think that we can
understand Him, is another mystery for me.
But, to me it’s a very sweet thing to see
human beings trying to comprehend the mystery
of God.
It’s like a little child trying to understand
the table work of his father; or could be
much more.
But this sound, the first sound, which is
described as also ‘logos’ I believe, is
the sound of this Primordial Power, of this
Divine Power, that has created the whole universe.
Now one may say that, “How are we to believe
that this sound exists?” Of course, one
should not believe.
But whether you believe or not, it exists!
So why not discover it.
Instead of discarding something, why not discover
it?
Is a better way of looking at things.
You should keep yourself absolutely open,
and see for yourself if it is true or not.
For any scientific man, it is important to
be an open-minded person.
If he is bound by some traditional ideas or
some sort of old-fashioned ideas or some sort
of hypocritical ideas, or fanatical ideas,
such a person cannot be a scientist.
For any scientist it is important to be a
very open-minded man, objective and not subjective.
You remain subjectively very controversial
when you are not Self-realised.
Before that every subject is a different subject.
Someone likes a blue colour, someone like
a red colour, someone likes a green colour.
Someone likes to eat ice cream, someone likes
to eat something else.
Everybody is a different person subjectively.
Some person like a blonde lady, someone likes
with the dark hair, and everybody has a different
idea.
There’s nothing like absolute among people,
naturally, because they have not reached their
absolute.
So you are absolutely subjective.
For music or for anything, whatever you like,
is all subjective – colours.
I was watching a TV for interior decoration
once and I was amazed the colours they used,
were so fantastic, so beautiful.
I liked them very much myself, but I had some
other people watching they said, “Horrid!
They are absolutely horrid!” I said, “Then
what colours you would like?” “Something
grey."
Really?
“Or something pale or insipid."
They didn’t mean insipid but the colours
they liked were insipid according to me.
Because if you enter into a room with that
kind of insipid thing, I mean you would really
recoil back thinking, “Oh God what sort
of people are living here?” But the ideas
have changed quite a lot that people now think
of warmth.
I mean naturally they have avoided many colours
which are not warm, which are dull.
But still it is subjective depending on the
conditioning of people.
I mean for example Indians like a particular
type of colours and English like another type;
everyone likes different.
So some absolute has to be found out.
So everything that is subjective is useless
for a scientist, no doubt, but scientists
have not reached their absolute either.
What they know as absolute also turns out
to be not that – whatever law is said now.
They said that everything moves, and goes
on moving, like Newton’s Law was; but Einstein
challenged it.
Some said that the things are made of atoms,
then they came out with another theory saying,
“No, it’s made of molecules."
So you are also discovering something, challenging
it, checking it, and understanding it.
Whatever looks today the truth, may not look
the truth tomorrow.
So this is not truth.
If the truth is changing, it cannot be the
truth.
There’s something illusory about the whole
thing because what you think today as the
truth doesn’t remain as the truth tomorrow.
So there’s some sort of an illusion that
is working in between.
Something you like in childhood, you may not
like it in your old age.
It’s all the time changing.
The subjective mood depends on so many things:
your family, your treatment, your childhood,
your parents, your relations, the country
you are born in, the culture you are brought
up in.
Everything gives you this personality which
has that subjective feelings or subjective
understanding.
Now the science confuses, confuses more when
you see that whatever we have produced through
science has not given us joy.
Our hearts have become just like stones and
we have created devils and devils and devils:
like atom bombs and hydrogen bombs and this
and that, and now we are frightened of them
and we are fighting, “No more hydrogen bombs!”
and “No more nuclear things!” and “We
don’t want nuclear weapons!” Who has created
them?
You have created them and now you are against
it.
Human beings are wonderful.
They create something, and then they create
an organisation against it.
It’s rather wasteful I think to go about
like this.
First you build up yourself and knock it down.
Then again build up something else and knock
it down.
It’s very frustrating and one feels so puzzled
and confused.
But truth is never confused.
Truth remains the truth.
It never changes.
It is absolute – it is nitya.
It is never changed.
It remains the same.
It may manifest in different forms but it
never changes.
And what is the truth?
What is the truth?
In very simple words, what is truth – that
God loves us.
This is the truth.
That He created us because He loved us.
It is His love that has created us.
He looks after us.
He protects us.
He guides us.
He gives us our evolution as a human being
and then He gives us a higher status, higher
consciousness by which we know His powers
and the powers flow through you – [this]
is the truth.
This does not change.
At monkey stage the truth was there, at human
stage the truth is there.
Whether you are a drunkard or a sinner or
a saint, the truth remains that God loves
you.
He may punish you in His love – that’s
a different point.
He may be angry with you in His love, but
He loves you.
Loves what?
What does He love in you is your Spirit.
The Spirit in you that sparkles.
He sees that spirit.
He tries to bring it out.
For example, you see a diamond, and you see
that it is lying in the mud – you lift it
from the mud.
You clean it, wipe it, chisel it, and make
a beautiful diamond out of it.
Anything that is created has had to go through
some processes.
In the same way, you have gone through your
evolutionary process.
But with what delicacy, with what understanding,
with what love!
Imagine, supposing you have to become a monkey
suddenly, how would it be?
Very painful! Won’t it be?
And extremely embarrassing too.
(laughter) But we have come out of monkeys
as they say, supposing we have.
Then, it has happened without our knowledge,
without any embarrassment.
I mean imagine a monkey suddenly becoming
a human being losing his tail, he must be
feeling quite nervous about the whole stuff!
That he cannot jump from trees to tree, he
cannot behave like the monkeys do.
I mean it’s rather difficult, isn’t it?
And to create this beautiful thing called
as human beings, without any pressure on him,
without any effort on him, without any money
load.
Because these days interest rates are very
high up! God knows, if He had charged you
money like the gurus are charging you, to
become human beings from monkeys to this stage
I don’t know how much you would have paid
off!
That’s the thing is that He loves us and
you can’t understand His love, that His
love is His own satisfaction.
He loves you because He enjoys His love.
His nature is to love.
That gives Him completeness.
That gives Him His own meaning.
That is His play.
That is His joy.
And that’s the only Truth.
Everything may change in this world but that
Truth remains.
If you have this faith within you – that
He loves you – despite the fact that you
have had bad problems.
It’s all human beings who create problems
for you, God doesn’t create any problem
for you.
You do not know how much He looks after you.
How many problems you have created for Him
so that there is a barrier between His grace
and you.
People have created mountains and mountains
between Him and themselves! They don’t want
to have Him.
He’s there to pour down all that He has
and here such a big balloon of an ego carrying
you through without receiving a single drop
of that grace.
So, we have to understand, that we are still
children, and children have to behave like
children.
Not to say that we know everything.
Actually you don’t know anything, I would
say, till you
have got your Realisation.
His love never changes.
Then His love is victorious – victorious.
It surpasses all the efforts of human beings
to lose it.
Everything we do, everything that is possible
under the sun, to make Him unhappy, frustrated,
angry with us.
Whatever good He does to people, they will
turn it into something nonsensical.
Say for example, give them money: let them
have some Lakshmi’s prasad is to, let them
have some money, some well-being, materially
– that’s the best way to ruin people.
Give them money and they’re out for breaking
their heads.
Absolutely! You give them the power.
Any power you give them, political, economic
and other sorts of, social – finished! They
know how to break themselves, completely destroy
themselves.
The whole wisdom works out at destroying your
attention and your holiness and your innocence,
your beautiful being that has been created
with such, tender care and love.
This is supposed to be ‘freedom’ you know,
– liberated.
With this kind of mess it’s rather difficult
to make the children understand that you are
destroying yourself so they have to have some
shocks.
You tell a child, “Don’t put your finger
in the plug!” But if you say, “Don’t
put!” Then that must go.
It’s a sort of a worm in the head! “Oh,
they have said not to put?
We must!” So they will put the fingers in
there.
You said, “Don’t put it!” – still.
Then again you say, “Don’t put it!”
Still.
Then you say, “Alright, go ahead!” And
then they get a shock! It can be serious,
but what to do?
They don’t want to listen to you.
I can understand children [being like that]
and some very old people are like that, I
have had very funny experiences of old people
also.
We had a gentleman here, a High Commissioner,
long time back.
Indian people have a speciality in appointing
very old people as Ambassadors – shaking.
I don’t know! Americans also do that.
And this gentleman was standing next to another
gentleman whom we knew very well you see,
so we went there and he said, “Meet Mr Gupta."
I said, “Look at that! This fellow’s name
is something else.
Say his name was Varma for example.
So he says, “Sir, I’m sorry, my name is
Mr Varma."
He said, “What did you say?
You mean I said wrong?” He said, “Not
that sir, but my name is Varma."
So another fellow comes in.
He says, “Please meet Mr Gupta."
He says, “Sir, I’m sorry my name is Varma."
He said, “Do you mean to say I’m telling
it wrong?
What do you mean by this?” “But sir but
my real name is Varma.
Everyone knows me."
“Doesn’t matter! Do you mean I am telling
you wrong names?” Then another fellow comes
in.
He says, “Now meet Mr Gupta."
So the gentleman says, “But I know him,
he’s not Gupta, he’s Varma.
How do you say Varma?” “But because I
say he’s Gupta, you see."
In the same way [if] the children are obstinate
it’s alright but what about the in-betweens?
The people who are grown-up, who are mature,
who do not suffer from senile decay, who are
supposed to be sensible, at the helm of affairs,
very responsible people – you see them and
you don’t know whether to put them as children
or senile, where they stand.
One can’t understand their obstinacy and
their stupidity! The way they deny all that
is Divine, all that is beautiful and just
run headlong, towards ugliness and unholy
things, inauspicious.
And then they end up with something tremendous
that has no chance for them to return.
Something horrifyingly powerful that engulfs
them.
So, for us it is necessary to understand,
basically when you come to Sahaja Yoga, you
must have your wisdom intact.
If you have no wisdom it’s going to be very
difficult.
I mean I have seen people, walking out of
lunatic asylums and coming to Sahaja Yoga
because the door is open to anyone who wants
to come in.
It’s free too.
I mean anyone who has no place to go anywhere,
they come round here, or they go to some cinema
show, they didn’t get the tickets can come
and sit down here also, for seeing.
There could be all kinds of people coming
down from all kinds of places but, though
Sahaja Yoga opens doors to everyone, how much
do you open your doors to Sahaja Yoga is more
important.
That is what is wanted, is the wisdom.
Wisdom to understand that, we have not found
the Truth, and we have to find it.
And that must happen to you.
There cannot be any brain-washing about it.
There’s no other way, but the actual happening,
the becoming.
That has to take place.
But you cannot demand anything here.
No! It’s a humble asking for that happening.
You have to ask for it.
It is, to be judged, by your Kundalini awakening:
how much time you will take, how far you can
go.
Without that, we just can’t say.
You see, there are people, “Can you give
me realisation in five minutes Mother?”
On the phone I hear the voice.
I hear the vibrations! Oh God! I said, “Can
you come tomorrow?” “Then will You give
me in five minutes?” I said, “Then can
you come day after?” I know I can’t give
him in five years! Because vibrations are
horrid! I have to work, I have to work for
that person.
Then he calls me.
I said, “Come along today my child."
“Mother, give me my realisation."
– it works out.
It’s the attitude [that is] very important.
If you have [an] aggressive attitude Sahaja
Yoga doesn’t work out.
You are all welcome.
You are welcome in my heart, there where the
rebirth takes place, no doubt.
But
you should value the love of God, and should
know that He loves you.
And you have to be humble to receive it: that
the grace should flow on you that, you should
be gracious to receive it.
Imagine you go to some place as a guest, and
there a big dinner is laid down, and you go
and with a big thump on the table and you
say, “How dare you do this!” Then they’ll
say, “Some lunatic has walked in!” They’ll
say “Oh, get out!” That’s exactly what
happens to many people who come down to us.
In Sahaja Yoga you have to have a balanced
– sainyata – balanced wisdom.
Wisdom that gives you a balance.
If you keep that for a month I am sure you
will establish yourself fully and it will
work out.
It’s your own, it’s for yourself.
You have to have it.
You have every right to have it.
Agreed.
Everything is yours but you have to have a
little patience with yourself and respect
and attention.
This is very important.
Then this brahmanaad I was talking about,
this Omkara, is made of three powers within
us A U M, and these three powers are called
as Mahakali, Mahalakshmi, Mahasaraswati in
Sahaja Yoga.
These are the three powers that exist within
us.
Mahakali power is on the left-hand side, as
you see, which comes from the right, comes
down, is the power of desire.
Right-hand side power, called as Mahasaraswati,
comes from the left to the right, and the
central one is the one called as the Mahalakshmi
power which gives you your evolution.
So you have a left-sided power, which is called
as Mahakali’s is the power of desire, the
right side one is the power of action, and
the central one is the power of evolution
– the third one, the centre one.
The centre one, is the one that has created
you into a human being.
This is the subtle power within us.
But we have expressed them in the gross, that
the left and right sympathetic nervous system,
are expressed by left and right-sided power.
And the parasympathetic nervous system is
expressing the central path, called as sushumna
– as far as we have achieved in our human
awareness.
So in our human awareness we have reached
a particular point.
To go beyond this, is the modern problem is
the latest, the extra, what do you call that
– ultra-modern.
Ultra-modern problem is how to raise our consciousness
to that point where we become one with our
Selves, with our Spirit.
Otherwise you have no meaning, no meaning
to your life.
You don’t know why you exist.
You may go to a hundred places, do what you
like, you have to find out your Self.
And that is done by the power within you called
as ‘Kundalini’ which rests in the triangular
bone, in the coccyx, in three and a half coils,
and it rises through all these centres, six,
which are placed above it, and gives you your
baptism; where the Kundalini breaks through
this point, called as ‘brahmarandhra’
in the fontanel bone area.
And you achieve that, you become that – that
collective being – so that you start feeling
a cool breeze flowing in your hands and feeling
the different centres.
It’s the becoming.
And the whole system starts changing, the
priorities start changing and you start seeing
the working of the Divine Power.
That is love.
Not the love that we understand [which] is
limited but love that is emitting all the
time, ceaselessly.
The love that knows, the love that loves,
the love that coordinates and cooperates and
runs this whole world.
That’s the Truth.
The rest is all falsehood, is all illusion.
It’s that Power managing everything in this
world.
The rest of it is all a fake.
That’s what you have to achieve.
That’s how I hope you are here.
May God bless you all
Now.
Any questions?
I am sorry I am taking tea and you are not
taking the tea!
Any questions please?
Any questions?
Thoughtless! The Kundalini has risen above
this.
You cannot think of a question.
That’s the first trick I do.
Kundalini has risen over.
Because thinking is a horrid thing! You don’t
know where you go, like an octopus here, there,
there, what you gather.
Yogi: Mother would you please vibrate some
lemons and chilies for me?
(laughter)
Shri Mataji: What is it my son?
Yogini: He’s asking Mother if you will vibrate
some lemons and chillies.
Shri Mataji: Of course, of course.
That I will do.
Not just now.
Just wait, I will do it later.
Let me give them Realisation first.
That’s very interesting.
That’s another mystery.
We have a new relationship in our family and
there was a doctor, and his wife has been
sick for the last eight years and she’s
very nervous and she’s having lots of problems,
this, that.
So I told her, “Alright you get some lemon
and chilies I’ll vibrate it, and they’ll
work it out."
She said, “What?
I’ve paid so much to the psychologist.
I’ve been to this place and that place!”
I said, “Only I need lemon and chilies but
you have to pay for it.
I can’t pay for that!” She said, “Alright."
I said, “Now you try me."
So she brought it.
In India it’s very cheap you know, lemon
and chilies.
I vibrated and gave it to her.
Next day she came up.
“Oh God, what’s happened?
I’m perfectly alright.
What did you do with the lemon chilies?
What has happened, what’s the mystery?”
But her husband is a very fine man, a doctor.
He said, “What is this?
What is this magic?
What have you done?
I couldn’t get this wife of mine cured all
these days! We did every thing, operations,
this that.
How these lemon, chilies have cured?” I
said, “Now I’ll not tell you but later
on."
Such simple things.
That’s the mystery.
The vibrations: same thing.
In Sahaja Yoga some things will sound very
strange to people.
For example when they give a bandhan to their
aura.
When they try to move their hands.
Because from the hand, the power is flowing
you see.
So you put, a bondage to your aura, so that
nothing negative comes to you.
You see like this.
Indians may understand it but not in the West.
But I am sure [that] when Christ used to do
like this, in the beginning, most of the people
must be laughing at it.
Not understanding what all this is.
Or when they started doing Namaz.
Now everybody’s doing Namaz.
Specially in London I think we are all becoming
Arabic! That suits us better.
I was surprised that there are schools and
schools for all the executives to learn Arabic
now.
It’s the money religion started.
And when Mohammed Sahib started this thing,
I mean, everybody used to make fun of him.
It’s complete Kundalini jagruti! Namaz is
nothing but Kundalini jagruti it is.
But these Muslims do they know?
Or those who laugh at them?
Nobody knows.
Both are in the same boat, because one are
doing blindly and another are just laughing
at them blindly, again.
Now the Hindus when they do puja and aarti
do they know what they are doing?
They don’t know! They do it because traditionally
they have been doing it.
They don’t know how they are giving bandhan.
They don’t know what they are doing, what
is this movement is, nothing they know.
But traditionally they are doing it.
Whatever it is all these things have meanings.
In Sahaja Yoga you know the meanings of everything.
The meaning of these Incarnations like Prophets,
like Krishna, Rama, Christ, Mohammed, Moses,
every one has a great meaning in our lives.
All that you discover after coming to Sahaja
Yoga, not before that.
Before Realisation nothing can be understood.
But once you know, you know.
Those who do not know should not laugh at
people who know.
On the contrary they should try to know and
then laugh at them.
Then they won’t! Then they respect each
other and love each other.
No questions there?
Seeker: I would like to ask a question actually.
I got my Kundalini awakened by another guru
and I’ve been doing sadhana, but I feel
like I’ve reached some kind of blockage
and we’re not taught how to overcome these
blockages at all and I just don’t know what
I could do.
Shri Mataji: How can they tell?
Seeker: They told to just keep doing more.
Shri Mataji: You see, that’s the trouble
with all of them.
Naturally they have to keep some sort of a
detective story going on isn’t it, to sell
in the market.
They ‘know’, but they don’t tell you,
then why do you want to listen to them?
You should not.
You should ask them, “Please tell us."
For example somebody says, “We can fly."
“Alright, you fly for us!” You should
ask.
Nobody has said so far.
Why don’t you write letters to this gentleman
who’s teaching you ‘flying’.
Tell him to drop himself from Leaning Tower
of Pisa.
(laughter) Yes, good idea! To all of them.
You see those who say, “You’ll do this
you’ll do that."
You say, “You show us what you do!” But
you do not.
You go headlong.
But the trouble is, oh God, the way you are
impressed by this circus! How can there be
a circus of God?
It has no pretensions.
It cannot have any pretensions.
Seeker: I’m not actually doing TM.
I’m following the teachings of…
Shri Mataji: What were you doing?
Seeker: I’m not actually doing TM practices.
Siddha Yoga.
Shri Mataji: Who is that one?
Seeker: Swami Muktananda
Shri Mataji: Ah! Does he look like a siddha?
How can you believe him, now tell me?
First of all.
Now I’ll tell you, I agree with you, but
you people are so simple.
So simple.
You go into his ashram, you meet his disciples:
poor things you know, they are good people,
no doubt; lost, absolutely no doubt.
But what have they achieved?
All good people tossing their heads there.
Have they known anything?
Do they know anything about the Kundalini?
Do they know how to raise the Kundalini?
They know anything about the chakras?
Nothing.
Then how is it that you are also there?
What I am saying is that these poor things
do not know anything.
Now you ask here all these Sahaja Yogis are
sitting – they’ll tell you where is the
catch.
Even a child will say the same thing.
Not necessarily [that] they should be very
intelligent here, or something very developed.
Any child will say the same thing as others
will say because it’s there on the fingers;
they are all going to feel the same way.
But if you go and see these horrid people!
I mean they made the guruees and all these,
what you call these, spoons around, we call
them chamcha in our language, means the assistants
you know, who made a big ado out of these
big things.
There’s no direct rapport with this Muktananda!
Horrible thing I say.
How many people he has finished like this!
They want money.
Let them do smuggling! Why are they after
all the saints?
They want money that’s what they want, nothing
else.
Their interest is money.
But also they want to ruin the saints.
They want to have it from the saints.
Why don’t they do smuggling, they’ll do
better, than many smugglers.
That’s their interest.
You cannot purchase God.
Have they transformed anyone?
Why not see other people?
Are they transformed?
Are they relaxed?
They all have blockages.
And then they very nicely say, oh very good
explanations they have.
One of them came to me from this Muktanand,
and he said that, “This guruji says, that,
‘You have got this blockage because of your
purva karmas, the bad things you have done
in last life.’ ” I said, “Really, and
what did he say that you were in last life?”
“He said I was a pig!” I said, “What
bad things pig can do?” “He says might
be a pig might have hit a human being."
I said, “I have not seen any pig hitting
a human being.
So what bad karmas a pig must have done?”
I said, “This fellow must have been a real
pig in his head to tell you that."
He doesn’t even have intelligence to tell
you that you were not a pig, but something
that is aggressive at least he should have
told you! And then you must clear out your
karmas you see.
So I said, “What does he do about it?
Sitting down there taking money for what?
If he cannot clear out your karmas then he’d
better retire!” If you have to cleanse your
karmas, then what is he doing there?
I mean, imagine he has opened a shop, for
repairs, and if you have to repair your things
then why is he there?
What is he doing?
“Oh he says he can wash off our one sixteenth
of the karmas."
Really?
But why only one sixteenth?
He can wash off all your money alright.
And why only one sixteenth.
But why do you believe these stories?
They made a big mistake, the Christians I
should say: they misinterpreted Christ.
The message of Christ never reached India
in time to say that somebody was born on this
Earth, to take away all our sins.
If He’s awakened within us, all our sins
can be washed out because
He is sakshat Parabrahma, He is sakshat Shri
Ganesh – purity Himself.
If He’s awakened within us, all our sins
He can, suck in.
These horrible Christians went there to convert
Indians, and now Indians have come to convert
you! That’s what it is.
Nonsense! It’s a very subtle action of negative
forces – all anti-God.
It has nothing to do with God.
Christ is a part and parcel of God as Shri
Ganesha is.
There’s no difference between the two.
He incarnated on this Earth for this particular
purpose.
Every time you see this church service, “God
came on this Earth, to die for our sins."
Alright then what are you doing about it?
What does that mean?
That means: if He’s awakened within you,
then He sucks all your karmas and your sins
so-called.
That’s why these people give you these explanations.
And nobody can tell them off because they
start with one theory that side, that we have
committed our sins, and that’s why we have
to pay for it.
And here there are people, “We have done
original sin, and for that we must suffer."
The Christians are suffering from where?
I don’t know.
And there the Indians are saying that we are
paying for our karmas, that’s why we are
suffering and here these are suffering.
This is all nonsense, I must say.
How God must be feeling about the people,
who have been bestowed upon, by all His grace,
by all His love, by all His beauty and are
‘enjoying’ the sufferings and announcing
to the world, “We are suffering!” He wants
to suck all your sins.
What sins can you commit also, human beings?
What sins can you commit?
You tell me.
What sins have you committed?
Specially you the saints who are seeking God
– what sins can you commit?
Thank God in India the idea of sin is not
so strong.
In a village, Indian village, a pastor went
there, and he told them something about Christ
and something about, in their own way, he
preached them something.
And they didn’t know what to say when he
was going, for a farewell, to be kind to him.
So they said, “Thank you very much for coming
to our village and telling us what is sin.
We did not know!” (laughter) What sins can
you commit?
You tell me.
What sin?
I am talking about Ocean of Love, Ocean of
Forgiveness.
Is He going to sit down and count your sins
or He is going to count the days when you
have to have your Realisation, you have to
enter into His kingdom?
He is your Father who loves you.
Any father who loves does not sit down counting
the sins of his children.
He is just counting days and days just for
His children to enter into His Kingdom to
enjoy Him.
What sins can you commit?
And why are you suffering now?
Christ did for you all the suffering.
Now why are you suffering?
That’s why the Jews don’t want to accept
Christ because they say, “We are suffering."
And wherever they go everybody had to suffer
because of them! But they want to a create
a story [that] they are suffering now, because
if they say, “We are not suffering,” means
they accept Christ and that they don’t want
to say.
Two thousand years they must suffer more,
make everyone suffer with wars and things.
Because they cannot accept Christ.
So this kind of madness all over! I mean everybody
is just the same.
There’s nothing to choose.
It doesn’t matter.
Still Sahaja Yoga works out.
Sahaja Yoga works out because, as I told you,
there’s one eternal truth: is that your
Father, God Almighty, loves you.
Remember that.
Write it down everywhere so that you’ll
have confidence in yourself.
Alright?
I’ll put this Muktananda right don’t you
worry! How much money you have given him?
Seeker: Not very much.
Shri Mataji: Dekhiye! Abhi dekh lijiye! Mahati,
apne desh ke logon ki! Kitne rupiye khae in
logon ka! (meaning: Look! Our country’s
money collectors – how much money they have
eaten of these people!)
Put your hands like this, just now.
Just put your both the feet straight on the
ground.
I see someone there! Hello, congratulations!
I have been dying to see the baby! Can I have
her! Oooh ho! This dolly little thing! I’m
sorry I couldn’t come to see you in your
house! Such a sweet thing as you are! Such
a sweet thing! May God bless you.
She looks like me! (laughter) Beautiful! I’ve
been dying to see her! Beautiful! Born Realised.
Great soul.
Now the eyes have opened.
Must put oil there, vibrated oil.
May God bless you.
Hmm.
Now put your hands straight with both your
feet on the ground.
Close your eyes please.
Don’t fix your attention anywhere.
Don’t say any mantra or anything.
Just leave your attention free.
The Kundalini has to rise and break the Sahasrara,
then you start feeling the cool breeze in
the hand.
Anybody having just a handkerchief for me?
Just I forgot to bring I think.
(5 minutes of silent meditation follow)
Hmm! Better now?
Why don’t you see these people who have
come for the first time, from the back?
Douglas, you organise!
Close your eyes! Close your eyes! They’ll
see from the back.
Just close your eyes, just keep your eyes
shut! They won’t touch you, you won’t
know what’s happening.
They’ll just raise your Kundalini.
Alright?
They will try to raise your Kundalini so don’t
worry about them.
Just they won’t touch you.
They will know that you have got Realisation
or not, where there are problems.
You got it?
Have you?
Are you feeling the cool breeze in the hands?
No?
What’s the matter?
Are you?
Anna, just see.
All here is Ekadasha Rudra – complete.
Put a bandhan on it.
Ekadasha Rudra.
Complete.
No, this way.
Whole thing.
They have got it, she has got it.
This one has got it.
They get it fast, lose it fast.
He’s got front Agnya.
Aaah!
Ask him to put right hand on the heart.
He’s got Vishuddhi.
Just give a bandhan.
Left Swadishthana he has got.
Hmm?
Void.
Void is there.
You can also do this, to raise Kundalini,
once you have got Realisation you see.
She’s got Void, she’s got Swadishthana,
Vishuddhi.
Haa!
Right Heart.
Ask him to put his left hand onto the Right
Heart.
Ask him about his father.
Haa! Now?
Better.
Hands to be straighter.
Ekadasha still.
Work it out.
Say the mantras.
Heat was Ekadasha.
Turn it around.
Alright now?
Hamsa he has.
Left to the Right, just raise it.
Other way round!
He too has been I think to some guru.
Ask him, he’s been to some guru.
Ask him.
All of them.
Ask a question.
Is he alright?
Void!
How is he?
Agnya.
Right to the Left.
Not to feel guilty.
Please don’t feel guilty.
Say that, “I am not guilty."
Alright?
Not to feel guilty at all.
Is he alright?
Are you alright?
Alright, everybody feels that way, doesn’t
matter.
The one who is giving you also felt the same
way so it’s alright.
Haa! Now it’s alright.
Alright?
Seeker: Yes.
Shri Mataji: Good, good.
Your face is changed.
Seeker: Very calm now.
Shri Mataji: Yes, very true.
Hmm.
Ekadasha Rudra.
Douglas?